CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Feedback and contributions to Dependabot

👋 Want to give us feedback on Dependabot, or contribute to it? That's great - thank you so much!

By submitting a contribution, you agree that contribution is licensed to GitHub under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

#### Overview

- [Contribution workflow](#contribution-workflow)
- [Project layout](#project-layout)
- [How to structure your Git Commits](#how-to-structure-your-git-commits)
- [Contributing new ecosystems](#contributing-new-ecosystems)

## Contribution workflow

1. Fork the project.
2. Get the [development environment running](README.md#getting-a-development-environment-running).
3. Make your feature addition or bug fix.
4. Add [tests for it](README.md#running-tests). This is important so we don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
5. Send a pull request. The tests will run on it automatically, so don't worry if you couldn't get them running locally.

## Project layout

There's a good description of the project's layout in our [README's Architecture section](README.md#architecture-and-code-layout), but if you're
struggling to understand how anything works please don't hesitate to create an issue.

## How to structure your Git Commits

1. Commit messages matter. [Here's how to write them well](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/).
2. We ask for one-commit-per-logical change. This generally results in one-commit-per-PR, but it's okay if a PR contains
   multiple commits when it's easier to understand each commit as a distinct unit of work, but they must all be landed together.
   A general rule of thumb is "What will make this code change simplest to understand for someone `git blame` spelunking down the road?"
3. Because of ☝️ we will generally merge-via-squash. However, if a PR contains multiple commits that shouldn't be squashed, then we will typically merge via a merge commit and not a rebase since merge-via-rebase can break `git bisect`.

## Contributing new ecosystems

If you are an ecosystem maintainer and are interested in integrating with Dependabot, and are willing to help provide the expertise necessary to build and support it, please open an issue and let us know.

### What's next?

In `dependabot-core`, each ecosystem implementation is in its own gem so you can use Dependabot for a language
we have not merged by creating a [script](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-script) to run your own gem or
fork of core, e.g. [dependabot-lein-runner](https://github.com/CGA1123/dependabot-lein-runner)

We are investing more developer time directly in `dependabot-core` to improve our architecture so that
each ecosystem is more isolated and testable. Our goal is make it easier to create and test Dependabot extensions so there is a paved path for running additional
ecosystems in the future.

## Stalebot

We have begun using a [Stalebot action](https://github.com/actions/stale) to help keep the Issues and Pull requests backlogs tidy. You can see the configuration [here](.github/workflows/stalebot.yml). If you'd like to keep an issue open after getting a stalebot warning, simply comment on it and it'll reset the clock.

Commit message:

Add well-documented and easy to understand expectation to CONTRIBUTING

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Feedback and contributions to Dependabot

👋 Want to give us feedback on Dependabot, or contribute to it? That's great - thank you so much!

By submitting a contribution, you agree that contribution is licensed to GitHub under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

#### Overview

- [Contribution workflow](#contribution-workflow)
- [Project layout](#project-layout)
- [How to structure your Git Commits](#how-to-structure-your-git-commits)
- [Contributing new ecosystems](#contributing-new-ecosystems)

## Contribution workflow

1. Fork the project.
2. Get the [development environment running](README.md#getting-a-development-environment-running).
3. Make your feature addition or bug fix.
4. Add [tests for it](README.md#running-tests). This is important so we don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
5. Ensure your code is well-documented and easy to understand.
6. Send a pull request. The tests will run on it automatically, so don't worry if you couldn't get them running locally.

## Project layout

There's a good description of the project's layout in our [README's Architecture section](README.md#architecture-and-code-layout), but if you're
struggling to understand how anything works please don't hesitate to create an issue.

## How to structure your Git Commits

1. Commit messages matter. [Here's how to write them well](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/).
2. We ask for one-commit-per-logical change. This generally results in one-commit-per-PR, but it's okay if a PR contains
   multiple commits when it's easier to understand each commit as a distinct unit of work, but they must all be landed together.
   A general rule of thumb is "What will make this code change simplest to understand for someone `git blame` spelunking down the road?"
3. Because of ☝️ we will generally merge-via-squash. However, if a PR contains multiple commits that shouldn't be squashed, then we will typically merge via a merge commit and not a rebase since merge-via-rebase can break `git bisect`.

## Contributing new ecosystems

If you are an ecosystem maintainer and are interested in integrating with Dependabot, and are willing to help provide the expertise necessary to build and support it, please open an issue and let us know.

### What's next?

In `dependabot-core`, each ecosystem implementation is in its own gem so you can use Dependabot for a language
we have not merged by creating a [script](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-script) to run your own gem or
fork of core, e.g. [dependabot-lein-runner](https://github.com/CGA1123/dependabot-lein-runner)

We are investing more developer time directly in `dependabot-core` to improve our architecture so that
each ecosystem is more isolated and testable. Our goal is make it easier to create and test Dependabot extensions so there is a paved path for running additional
ecosystems in the future.

## Stalebot

We have begun using a [Stalebot action](https://github.com/actions/stale) to help keep the Issues and Pull requests backlogs tidy. You can see the configuration [here](.github/workflows/stalebot.yml). If you'd like to keep an issue open after getting a stalebot warning, simply comment on it and it'll reset the clock.
