pub/README.md, before:

## `dependabot-pub`

Dart (pub) support for [`dependabot-core`][core-repo].

### Limitations

 - Limited updating of git-dependencies
   * `dart pub` in general doesn't read versions numbers from git, so upgrade logic is limited to upgrading to what the 'ref' is pointing to.
   * If you pin to a specific revision in `pubspec.yaml` dependabot will not find upgrades.
   * If you give a branch in `pubspec.yaml` dependabot will upgrade to the
     latest revision that branch is pointing to, and update pubspec.lock
     accordingly.
 - No support for security advisory integration.
 - If the version found is ignored (by dependabot config) no update will happen (even if, an earlier version could be used)
 - Limited metadata support (just retrieves the repository link).
 - Only stable versions of Dart and Flutter supported.
 - `updated_dependencies_after_full_unlock` only allows updating to a later version, if the latest version that is mutually compatible with other dependencies is the latest version of the said package. This is a dependabot limitation.

### Running locally

1. Install Ruby dependencies
   ```
   $ bundle install
   ```

2. Run tests
   ```
   $ bundle exec rspec spec
   ```

[core-repo]: https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core

### Dependency Service Interface

The `dart pub` repo offers an experimental dependency services interface which
allows checking for available updates.

#### List Dependencies

```js
# dart pub global run pub:dependency_services list
{
  "dependencies": [
    // For each dependency:
    {
      "name": "<package-name>",
      "version": "<version>",

      "kind": "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
      "source": <source-info>

      // Version constraint, as written in `pubspec.yaml`, null for
      // transitive dependencies.
      "constraint": "<version-constraint>" || null,
    },
    ... // must contain an entry for each dependency!
  ],
}

```

#### Dependency Report

```js
# dart pub global run pub:dependency_services report
// TODO: We likely need to provide ignored versions on stdin
{
  "dependencies": [
    // For each dependency:
    {
      "name":        "<package-name>",       // name of current dependency
      "version":     "<version>",            // current version
      "kind":        "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
      "source": <source-info>
      "constraint":  "<version-constraint>" || null, // null for transitive deps

      // Latest desirable version of the current dependency,
      //
      // Various heuristics defining "desirable" may apply.
      // For Dart we ignore pre-releases, unless the current version of the
      // dependency is already a pre-release.
      "latest": "<version>",

      // In the following possible upgrades are listed for different
      // 
      // The constraints are given in three versions, according to different
      // strategies for updating constraint to allow the new version of a 
      // package:
      //
      // * "constraintBumped": always update the constraint lower bound to match
      //   the new version.
      // * "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": leave the constraint if the original
      //   constraint allows the new version.
      // * "constraintWidened": extend only the upper bound to include the new 
      //   version.

      // If it is possible to upgrade the current version without making any
      // changes in the project manifest, then this lists the set of upgrades
      // necessary to get the latest possible version of the current dependency
      // without changes to the project manifest.
      //
      // The set of changes here should aim to avoid unnecessary changes.
      // That is in order of preference (heuristics allowed):
      //  * Always avoid any changes to project manifest,
      //  * Upgrade current dependency to latest version possible,
      //  * Remove unnecessary transitive dependencies,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies when possible.
      //
      // This can involve breaking version changes for transitive dependencies.
      // But a breaking change for a direct-dependency is only possible if allowed by
      // the manifest.
      "compatible": [
        {
           "name":                     "<package-name>",
           "version":                  "<new-version>" || null, // null, if removed
           "kind":                     "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
           "source": <source-info>
           "previousSource": <source-info>
           "constraintBumped":         "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintWidened":        "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "previousVersion":    "<version>" || null, // null, if added
           "previousConstraint": null, // always 'null' in compatible solution
        },
        ...
      ],

      // If it is possible to upgrade the current version without making changes
      // to other dependencies in the project manifest, then this lists the set
      // of upgrades necessary to get the latest possible version of the current
      // dependency without changes to other packages in the project manifest.
      //
      // The set of changes here should aim to avoid unnecessary changes.
      // That is in order of preference (heuristics allowed):
      //  * Always avoid changes to other dependencies in project manifest,
      //  * Upgrade the current dependency to latest version possible,
      //  * Remove unnecessary transitive dependencies,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies when possible.
      //
      // This can involve breaking version changes for the current dependency.
      // It can also involve breaking changes for transitive dependencies. But
      // changes for direct-dependencies are only possible if the manifest allows them.
      "singleBreaking": [
        {
           "name":                     "<package-name>",
           "version":                  "<new-version>" || null, // null, if removed
           "kind":                     "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
           "source": <source-info>
           "previousSource": <source-info>
           "constraintBumped":         "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintWidened":        "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "previousVersion":          "<version>" || null, // null, if added
           "previousConstraint":       "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
        },
        ...
      ],

      // If it is possible to upgrade the current version of the current
      // dependency by allowing multiple changes project manifest, then this
      // lists the set of upgrades necessary to get the latest possible version
      // of the current dependency, without removing any direct-dependencies.
      //
      // The set of changes here should aim to avoid unnecessary changes.
      // That is in order of preference (heuristics allowed):
      //  * Always avoid removing direct-/dev-dependencies from project manifest.
      //  * Upgrade the current dependency to latest version possible,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies in project manifest when
      //    possible,
      //  * Remove unnecessary transitive dependencies,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies when possible.
      //
      // This can involve breaking changes for any dependency.
      "multiBreaking": [
        {
           "name":                     "<package-name>",
           "version":                  "<new-version>" || null, // null, if removed
           "kind":                     "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
           "source": <source-info>
           "previousSource": <source-info>
           "constraintBumped":         "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintWidened":        "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "previousVersion":          "<version>" || null, // null, if added
           "previousConstraint":       "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
        },
        ...
      ],
    },
    ... // must contain an entry for each dependency!
  ],
}
```

#### Applying Changes

```js
# dart pub global run pub:dependency_services apply << EOF
{  // Write on stdin:
   "dependencyChanges": [
      {
         "name":            "<package-name>",
         "version":         "<new-version>",
         "constraint":      "<version-constraint>" or null,
         "source": <source-info>
      },
      ...
   ],
}
# EOF
{ // Output:
  "dependencies": [],
}
# Modifies pubspec.yaml and pubspec.lock on disk
```


The <source-info> is either `null` (no information provided) or a map providing
details about the package source in a manner specific to the
package-environment.

For a git dependency it will usually contain the git-url,
the path inside the repo and the ref. For a repository package it would contain
the url of the repository.
```js
{
  "type": "git" || "hosted" || "path" || "sdk", // Name of the source.
  ... // Other keys are free form json information about the dependency
}
```

Commit message:

Still no support for private package repositories

pub/README.md, after:

## `dependabot-pub`

Dart (pub) support for [`dependabot-core`][core-repo].

### Limitations

 - Limited updating of git-dependencies
   * `dart pub` in general doesn't read versions numbers from git, so upgrade logic is limited to upgrading to what the 'ref' is pointing to.
   * If you pin to a specific revision in `pubspec.yaml` dependabot will not find upgrades.
   * If you give a branch in `pubspec.yaml` dependabot will upgrade to the
     latest revision that branch is pointing to, and update pubspec.lock
     accordingly.
 - No support for security advisory integration.
 - If the version found is ignored (by dependabot config) no update will happen (even if, an earlier version could be used)
 - Limited metadata support (just retrieves the repository link).
 - No support for auhtentication of private package repositories (mostly a configuration issue).
 - Only stable versions of Dart and Flutter supported.
 - `updated_dependencies_after_full_unlock` only allows updating to a later version, if the latest version that is mutually compatible with other dependencies is the latest version of the said package. This is a dependabot limitation.

### Running locally

1. Install Ruby dependencies
   ```
   $ bundle install
   ```

2. Run tests
   ```
   $ bundle exec rspec spec
   ```

[core-repo]: https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core

### Dependency Service Interface

The `dart pub` repo offers an experimental dependency services interface which
allows checking for available updates.

#### List Dependencies

```js
# dart pub global run pub:dependency_services list
{
  "dependencies": [
    // For each dependency:
    {
      "name": "<package-name>",
      "version": "<version>",

      "kind": "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
      "source": <source-info>

      // Version constraint, as written in `pubspec.yaml`, null for
      // transitive dependencies.
      "constraint": "<version-constraint>" || null,
    },
    ... // must contain an entry for each dependency!
  ],
}

```

#### Dependency Report

```js
# dart pub global run pub:dependency_services report
// TODO: We likely need to provide ignored versions on stdin
{
  "dependencies": [
    // For each dependency:
    {
      "name":        "<package-name>",       // name of current dependency
      "version":     "<version>",            // current version
      "kind":        "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
      "source": <source-info>
      "constraint":  "<version-constraint>" || null, // null for transitive deps

      // Latest desirable version of the current dependency,
      //
      // Various heuristics defining "desirable" may apply.
      // For Dart we ignore pre-releases, unless the current version of the
      // dependency is already a pre-release.
      "latest": "<version>",

      // In the following possible upgrades are listed for different
      // 
      // The constraints are given in three versions, according to different
      // strategies for updating constraint to allow the new version of a 
      // package:
      //
      // * "constraintBumped": always update the constraint lower bound to match
      //   the new version.
      // * "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": leave the constraint if the original
      //   constraint allows the new version.
      // * "constraintWidened": extend only the upper bound to include the new 
      //   version.

      // If it is possible to upgrade the current version without making any
      // changes in the project manifest, then this lists the set of upgrades
      // necessary to get the latest possible version of the current dependency
      // without changes to the project manifest.
      //
      // The set of changes here should aim to avoid unnecessary changes.
      // That is in order of preference (heuristics allowed):
      //  * Always avoid any changes to project manifest,
      //  * Upgrade current dependency to latest version possible,
      //  * Remove unnecessary transitive dependencies,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies when possible.
      //
      // This can involve breaking version changes for transitive dependencies.
      // But a breaking change for a direct-dependency is only possible if allowed by
      // the manifest.
      "compatible": [
        {
           "name":                     "<package-name>",
           "version":                  "<new-version>" || null, // null, if removed
           "kind":                     "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
           "source": <source-info>
           "previousSource": <source-info>
           "constraintBumped":         "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintWidened":        "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "previousVersion":    "<version>" || null, // null, if added
           "previousConstraint": null, // always 'null' in compatible solution
        },
        ...
      ],

      // If it is possible to upgrade the current version without making changes
      // to other dependencies in the project manifest, then this lists the set
      // of upgrades necessary to get the latest possible version of the current
      // dependency without changes to other packages in the project manifest.
      //
      // The set of changes here should aim to avoid unnecessary changes.
      // That is in order of preference (heuristics allowed):
      //  * Always avoid changes to other dependencies in project manifest,
      //  * Upgrade the current dependency to latest version possible,
      //  * Remove unnecessary transitive dependencies,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies when possible.
      //
      // This can involve breaking version changes for the current dependency.
      // It can also involve breaking changes for transitive dependencies. But
      // changes for direct-dependencies are only possible if the manifest allows them.
      "singleBreaking": [
        {
           "name":                     "<package-name>",
           "version":                  "<new-version>" || null, // null, if removed
           "kind":                     "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
           "source": <source-info>
           "previousSource": <source-info>
           "constraintBumped":         "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintWidened":        "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "previousVersion":          "<version>" || null, // null, if added
           "previousConstraint":       "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
        },
        ...
      ],

      // If it is possible to upgrade the current version of the current
      // dependency by allowing multiple changes project manifest, then this
      // lists the set of upgrades necessary to get the latest possible version
      // of the current dependency, without removing any direct-dependencies.
      //
      // The set of changes here should aim to avoid unnecessary changes.
      // That is in order of preference (heuristics allowed):
      //  * Always avoid removing direct-/dev-dependencies from project manifest.
      //  * Upgrade the current dependency to latest version possible,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies in project manifest when
      //    possible,
      //  * Remove unnecessary transitive dependencies,
      //  * Avoid changes to other dependencies when possible.
      //
      // This can involve breaking changes for any dependency.
      "multiBreaking": [
        {
           "name":                     "<package-name>",
           "version":                  "<new-version>" || null, // null, if removed
           "kind":                     "direct" || "dev" || "transitive",
           "source": <source-info>
           "previousSource": <source-info>
           "constraintBumped":         "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintBumpedIfNeeded": "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "constraintWidened":        "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
           "previousVersion":          "<version>" || null, // null, if added
           "previousConstraint":       "<version-constraint>" || null, // null, if transitive
        },
        ...
      ],
    },
    ... // must contain an entry for each dependency!
  ],
}
```

#### Applying Changes

```js
# dart pub global run pub:dependency_services apply << EOF
{  // Write on stdin:
   "dependencyChanges": [
      {
         "name":            "<package-name>",
         "version":         "<new-version>",
         "constraint":      "<version-constraint>" or null,
         "source": <source-info>
      },
      ...
   ],
}
# EOF
{ // Output:
  "dependencies": [],
}
# Modifies pubspec.yaml and pubspec.lock on disk
```


The <source-info> is either `null` (no information provided) or a map providing
details about the package source in a manner specific to the
package-environment.

For a git dependency it will usually contain the git-url,
the path inside the repo and the ref. For a repository package it would contain
the url of the repository.
```js
{
  "type": "git" || "hosted" || "path" || "sdk", // Name of the source.
  ... // Other keys are free form json information about the dependency
}
```
